Welcome back! In
earlier courses,
we discussed the impact that
security incidents can have on
the critical data and
assets of an organization.
If data and assets
are compromised,
it can lead to financial
pains for an organization.
It can even lead to regulatory
fines and the loss of
credibility with customers or
other businesses in
the same industry.
This is why your
role in protecting
company data and
assets is so valuable.
Collaboration is
an exciting part
about working in security.
There are so many
individuals across
an organization that are
interested in various
functions of security.
No security professional
can do this alone.
Some team members are focused on
protecting sensitive
financial data,
others work on protecting
usernames and passwords,
some are more focused
on protecting
third-party vendor security, and
others may be concerned with
protecting employees' PII.
These stakeholders
and others have
an interest in the role the
security team plays for
keeping the organization,
and the people
it serves, safe from
malicious attacks.
It's important to recognize
that the assets and data you
protect affect multiple
levels of your organization.
One of the most
important concerns for
an organization is the
protection of customer data.
Customers trust that an
organization they engage
with will protect their
data at all times.
This means credit card numbers,
Social Security numbers, emails,
usernames, passwords,
and so much more.
It's important to keep this in
mind when taking on
a security role.
Understanding the importance of
the data you're protecting
is a big part of having a
strong security mindset.
As a security professional,
it's important to handle
sensitive data with
care while being
mindful of the little details to
ensure that private data is
protected from breaches.
When a security event
results in a data breach,
it is categorized as
a security incident.
However, if the event is
resolved without
resulting in a breach,
it's not considered an incident.
It's better to be
safe when it comes
to taking a job in the
security profession.
That means paying attention to
details and raising your
issues to your supervisor.
For example, a
seemingly small issue,
like an employee
installing an app on
their work device without
getting permission from
the help desk should be
escalated to a supervisor.
This is because some apps
have vulnerabilities that
can pose a threat to the
security of the organization.
An example of a bigger issue is
noticing that a log may have
malicious code executed in it.
Malicious code can lead
to operational downtime,
severe financial consequences,
or the loss of critical
high-level assets.
The point is that there are
no issues that are
too small or too big.
If you're not sure of the
potential impact of an incident,
it's always best
to be cautious and
report events to the
appropriate team members.
Each day on the job as
a security professional
comes with a level
of responsibility to
help protect the organization
and the people it serves.
The decisions you make not
only affect the company,
but also its customers and
countless team members
across the organization.
Remember, what you do matters!